new general guide to integrate data with Airbyte and S3 (#2078)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/ingest-any-data-via-airbyte-s3-and-webhook.md

    local_filename = key.split('/')[-1]
    print(f"Downloading {key} to {local_filename}...")
    s3.download_file(bucket_name, key, local_filename)
```

Execute your script from the terminal:

``` code showLineNumbers
python download_s3.py
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Once the files are in your local device you can use your preferred text editor to review it's content and
construct the appropriate blueprints and mappings for your data.

### Create blueprints 

Once you have decided on the desired blueprints you wish to set up, you can refer to the [blueprint creation docs](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/customize-integrations/configure-data-model/setup-blueprint/?definition=ui) to set them up in your account.

### Create webhook integration

Once you have decided on the mappings you wish to set up, you can refer to the [webhook creation docs](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/custom-integration/webhook/) to set them up in your portal.

:::tip Important
It is important that you use the generated webhook URL when setting up the Connection in Airbyte, otherwise the data will not be automatically ingested into Port from S3.
:::

## Troubleshooting

> ### Issues with Airbyte<>S3 integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issues with Airbyte->S3 integration
```

Airbyte provides detailed logs available through the web application on currently running sync processes as well as historical ones.  
After a successful sync has completed, you will be able to see how long ago it was executed, and how many records were loaded to S3 in every stream.

> ### Issues with S3<>Port ingestion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issues with S3->Port ingestion
```

---
title: Ingest Any data source into Port via Airbyte, S3 and Webhook
displayed_sidebar: null
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import PortTooltip from "/src/components/tooltip/tooltip.jsx"
import AirbyteS3DestinationSetup from "/docs/generalTemplates/_airbyte_s3_destination_setup.md"

> # Ingest Any data source into Port via Airbyte, S3 and Webhook
> 
> This guide will demonstrate how to ingest any data source into Port using Airbyte, S3 and Webhook integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Ingest any data source into Port via Airbyte, S3 and webhook

This guide will demonstrate how to ingest any data source into Port using Airbyte, S3 and a webhook integration.
```

## Prerequisites

- Ensure you have a Port account and have completed the [onboarding process](https://docs.port.io/quickstart).

- This feature is part of Port's limited-access offering. To obtain the required S3 bucket, please contact our team directly via Intercom, [Slack](https://www.getport.io/community), or [e-mail](mailto:support@getport.io), and we will create and manage the bucket on your behalf.

> - Access to available Airbyte app (can be cloud or self-hosted) - for reference, follow the [quick start guide](https://docs.airbyte.com/using-airbyte/getting-started/oss-quickstart)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to an available Airbyte app (can be cloud or self-hosted) - for reference, follow the [quick start guide](https://docs.airbyte.com/using-airbyte/getting-started/oss-quickstart).
```

## Airbyte Setup

> To integrate in Airbyte-supported data source into Port, you will need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate Airbyte-supported data source into Port, you will need to:
```

1. Set up the S3 destination (only once).

2. Set up the Data Source - once per data source you wish to integrate. Airbyte provides detailed [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/sources/) on how to generate/receive the appropriate credentials to set each data source.

> 3. Set up the Connection between the source and destination - In this step you will be able to decide what data is being ingested, to which Webhook Integration in Port (see below "Set up the Connection"), how often will the sync will be executed and in what mode (Full refresh / Incremental).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set up the Connection between the source and destination - in this step you will be able to define what data will be ingested, to which webhook integration in Port (see below "Set up the Connection"), how often will the sync will be executed, and in what mode (full refresh / incremental).  
```

### Set up S3 Destination

<AirbyteS3DestinationSetup/>

### Set up Data Source

#### Find the connector in Airbyte

> Airbyte supports a growing, wide range of connectors for [Data Sources](https://airbyte.com/connectors?connector-type=Sources)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airbyte supports a wide range of connectors for [Data Sources](https://airbyte.com/connectors?connector-type=Sources).  

```

Each connector may require different steps to set up, some may be simple (such as generating an API Access Token), 
and some may be more demanding such as spinning up a dedicated app (for example a SlackApp with relevant permissions)
In addition, pay attention to the Support Level of the connector - Airbyte is open source, and some connectors are maintained officially by Airbyte, but some are maintained by the community (labeled as "Marketplace Connectors")
Also, some connectors are available in specific Airbyte deployment mode (some are Cloud only, while others are available on any mode).

> Lastly, if you cannot find the connector you desire, you can [submit a request](https://airbyte.com/connector-requests) to Airbyte for a new connector for the data source you require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each connector may require different steps to set up, some may be simple (such as generating an API Access Token), 
and some may be more demanding such as spinning up a dedicated app (for example a SlackApp with relevant permissions).

In addition, pay attention to the Support Level of the connector - Airbyte is open source, some connectors are maintained officially by Airbyte, while others are maintained by the community (labeled as "Marketplace Connectors").  
Also, some connectors are available in specific Airbyte deployment modes (some are Cloud only, while others are available on any mode).

Lastly, if you cannot find the connector you desire, you can [submit a request](https://airbyte.com/connector-requests) to Airbyte for a new connector.
```

### Set up the connection in Airbyte

> 1. In Airbyte "Connections" page, Create a "+ New Connection"
> 
> 2. For Source, choose the Desired data source you have set up
> 
> 3. For Destination, choose the S3 Destination you have set up
> 
> 4. In the **Select Streams** step, tick the streams you are interested in synchronizing into Port.
> 
> 5. In the **Configuration** step, under "Destination Namespace", choose "Custom Format" and **enter the Webhook URL you have copied when setting up the webhook"** (see below), for example: "wSLvwtI1LFwQzXXX"
> 
> 6. **Click on Finish & Sync** to apply and start the Integration process!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Airbyte "Connections" page, create a "+ New Connection".

2. For **Source**, choose your desired data source.

3. For **Destination**, choose the S3 Destination you have set up.

4. In the **Select Streams** step, check the streams you are interested in synchronizing into Port.

5. In the **Configuration** step, under "Destination Namespace", choose "Custom Format" and enter the webhook URL you copied when setting up the webhook, for example: "wSLvwtI1LFwQzXXX".

6. **Click on Finish & Sync** to apply and start the Integration process!
```

## Data model setup

### Figure out the target schema and mapping

You will need to be able to determine the schema of the data you want to ingest.
If you are unsure about the schema that the connector extracts, you can always set up the Airbyte connection to S3 first,
and during the **Select Streams** step in the connection setup, you can review the expected schema for each stream and
construct the appropriate blueprints and mappings for your needs.
Alternatively, you may set up the connection completely and start the sync, and download the extracted files from S3,
review them, and construct the appropriate blueprints and mappings for you needs.

:::tip Important
If you set up a connection to S3 before setting the target blueprints and mappings, you will have to execute a "resync" 
in airbyte after the resources in Port have been properly set up.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define the data model, you will need to know the schema of the data you want to ingest.  
If you are unsure about the schema that the connector extracts, you can always set up the Airbyte connection to S3 first,
and during the **Select Streams** step in the connection setup, review the expected schema for each stream and construct the appropriate blueprints and mappings.

Alternatively, you can set up the connection and start the sync, then download the extracted files from S3, review them, and construct the appropriate blueprints and mappings.

:::tip Important
If you set up a connection to S3 before setting the target blueprints and mappings, you will have to execute a "resync" 
in airbyte after the resources in Port have been properly set up.
:::
```

> ##### To download the extracted S3 files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To download the extracted S3 files:**
```

<Tabs groupId="Download S3 files extracted by Airbyte" queryString values={
[{label: "AWS CLI", value: "aws_cli"},{label: "Python (Boto3)", value: "python_boto3"}]
}>

<TabItem value="aws_cli" label="AWS CLI">

> Install AWS CLI:
> Download and install the AWS CLI from [AWS’s official page](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/).
> 
> Configure Your Credentials:
> Run the command below and input your ACCESS_KEY, SECRET_KEY, and region:
> 
> ```code showLineNumbers
> aws configure
> ```
> Alternatively, you can set the environment variables AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, and AWS_DEFAULT_REGION.
> 
> Download Files from S3:
> Use the following command, replacing the placeholders with your bucket name and file prefix:
> 
> ```code showLineNumbers
> aws s3 cp s3://<bucket-name>/<file-prefix> ./local-folder --recursive
> ```
> for example:
> ``` code showLineNumbers
> aws s3 cp s3://org-XXX/data/abc123/ ./my_extracted_data --recursive
> ```
> 
> This command copies all files that start with your specified prefix into the local folder (create it if needed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download and install the AWS CLI from [AWS’s official page](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/).

2. Configure Your Credentials:  
Run the command below and input your `ACCESS_KEY`, `SECRET_KEY`, and `region`:

```code
aws configure
```
Alternatively, you can set the environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`.

3. Download Files from S3:  
Run the following command, replacing the placeholders with your bucket name and file prefix:

```code
aws s3 cp s3://<bucket-name>/<file-prefix> ./local-folder --recursive
```
for example:
``` code
aws s3 cp s3://org-XXX/data/abc123/ ./my_extracted_data --recursive
```

This command copies all files that start with your specified prefix into the local folder (create it if needed).
```

``` code showLineNumbers
import boto3

# Initialize the S3 client with your credentials and region
s3 = boto3.client(
    's3',
    aws_access_key_id='YOUR_ACCESS_KEY_ID',
    aws_secret_access_key='YOUR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY',
    region_name='YOUR_REGION'
)

bucket_name = 'your-bucket-name'
prefix = 'your/file/prefix/'  # Ensure this ends with '/' if you want a folder-like behavior

# List objects within the specified prefix
response = s3.list_objects_v2(Bucket=bucket_name, Prefix=prefix)

# Download each file found
for obj in response.get('Contents', []):
    key = obj['Key']
    # Define a local filename (you might want to recreate the directory structure)
    local_filename = key.split('/')[-1]
    print(f"Downloading {key} to {local_filename}...")
    s3.download_file(bucket_name, key, local_filename)
```

Execute your script from the terminal:

``` code showLineNumbers
python download_s3.py
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Once the files are in your local device you can use your preferred text editor to review it's content and
construct the appropriate blueprints and mappings for your data.

> <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Add Blueprints 

Once you have decided on the desired blueprints you wish to set up, you can refer to the [blueprint creation docs](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/customize-integrations/configure-data-model/setup-blueprint/?definition=ui) to set them up in your account.

### Create Webhook Integration

Once you have decided on the desired mappings you wish to set up, you can refer to the [webhook creation docs](https://docs.port.io/build-your-software-catalog/custom-integration/webhook/) to set them up in your account.

:::tip Important
It is important that you use the generated webhook URL when setting up the Connection in Airbyte, otherwise the data will not be automatically ingested into Port from S3.
:::

<br/>

## Troubleshooting

### Troubleshooting issues in Airbyte integration to S3

Airbyte provides detailed logs available through the web application on currently running sync processes as well as historical ones.  
After a successful sync has completed, you will be able to see how long ago it was executed, and how many records were loaded to S3 in every stream.

> ### Troubleshooting issues in ingestion to Port from S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Issues with S3<>Port ingestion
```

> If everything in Airbyte is working properly, and you don't see the data in your Port account, you may follow these steps to diagnose the root cause for the missing data:
> 
> #### Issues in the Webhook
> 1. Navigate to [Data Sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources) in your port account
> 
> 2. Locate the Webhook integration you have set for the ingestion, and click on it.
> 
> 3. In the pop-up interface, under "Add test Event" click on "Load latest event". 
> 
> 4. You should now see an example event that was received from the ingestion pipeline (In case you don't - scroll down to the below section in this guide: Data in S3 is not propagating to Port)
> 
> 5. Scroll down to the section "Test Mapping" and click on the "Test Mapping" button at the bottom of the pop-up interface.
> As a result of the steps above you should see the result of the mapping applied on the latest event that was received by the webhook URL in the text box above the "Test Mapping" button.
> If you encounter a jq error - it means you have a syntax error or the source's schema does not match the mapping you have set and you will need to adjust the mapping properly.
> If you encounter a JSON document list, it means the mapping is working properly, but it could be that the filters you have set in it all result in "false" (which means no entity will be created). 
> In this case you will need to look over the appropriate element in the document (with the relevant blueprint for the loaded event) and adjust the mapping so that the "filter" field will be "true"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything in Airbyte is working properly, and you don't see the data in your Port account, you can follow these steps to diagnose the root cause:

#### Issues in the Webhook
1. Navigate to [Data Sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources) in your port account.

2. Locate the Webhook integration you have set for the ingestion, and click on it.

3. In the pop-up interface, under "Add test Event" click on "Load latest event". 

4. You should now see an example event that was received from the ingestion pipeline (in case you don't - scroll down to the below section in this guide: Data in S3 is not propagating to Port).

5. Scroll down to the section "Test Mapping" and click on the "Test Mapping" button at the bottom of the pop-up interface.  
You should see the result of the mapping applied on the latest event that was received by the webhook URL in the text box above the "Test Mapping" button.  
If you encounter a jq error - it means you have a syntax error or the source's schema does not match the mapping you have set and you will need to adjust the mapping properly.  
If you encounter a JSON document list, it means the mapping is working properly, but it could be that the filters you have set in it all result in "false" (which means no entity will be created).  
In this case you will need to look over the appropriate element in the document (with the relevant blueprint for the loaded event) and adjust the mapping so that the "filter" field will result to "true".
```

#### Issues in the blueprint definition

> 1. Navigate to [Data Sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources) in your port account.
> 
> 2. Locate the Webhook integration you have set for the ingestion, and click on it.
> 
> 3. In the pop-up interface, in the top pane menu click on "Audit Log".
> 
> 4. You can now browse for issues in ingestion of specific entities in the audit log, or apply a filter where **Status != "Success"**
> If any Entities were created but failed to ingest, you will see an indicative error that may lead you to the issue in the blueprint definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [Data Sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources) of your port account.

2. Locate the webhook integration you have set for the ingestion, and click on it.

3. In the pop-up interface, in the top pane menu click on "Audit Log".

4. You can now browse for issues in ingestion of specific entities in the audit log, or apply a filter where **Status != "Success"**.  
If any entities were created but failed to ingest, you will see an indicative error that may lead you to the issue in the blueprint definition.
```

#### Data is not propagating from S3 to Port

> If you're sure the Airbyte integration is working properly, there are no records in the Audit Log, and the "Load latest event" button does not produce an event in the corresponding box,
> there might be an issue with the pipeline set up by port. In this case, contact us using Intercom/Slack/mail to [support@getport.io](mailto:support@getport.io) and our support team will assist in diagnosing and solving the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're sure the Airbyte integration is working properly, there are no records in the Audit Log, and the "Load latest event" button does not produce an event in the corresponding box, there might be an issue with the pipeline set up by Port.  
In this case, contact us using Intercom/Slack/mail to [support@getport.io](mailto:support@getport.io) and our support team will assist in diagnosing and solving the issue.
```
